---
title: "About"
permalink: "/about.html"
comments: false
---
This site is affiliated to [ARC Training Centre for Information Resilience](https://cires.org.au/). The Centre for Information Resilience (CIRES) is an Australian Research Council (ARC) Industrial Transformation Training Centre funded for 5 years from 2021. Our Centre aims at building workforce capacity in Australian organisations to create, protect and sustain agile data pipelines, capable of detecting and responding to failures and risks across the information value chain in which the data is sourced, shared, transformed, analysed and consumed. Building on strong foundations of responsible data science, we bring together end-users, technology providers, and cutting-edge research, to reduce the socio-technical barriers to data driven transformation. We support the development of resilient data pipelines capable of delivering game-changing productivity that position Australian organisations at the forefront of technology leadership and value creation from data assets. 

Professor [Shazia Sadiq](https://researchers.uq.edu.au/researcher/792) is the CIRES Centre Director and a research and education leader in data science at The University of Queensland. Her research track record has focussed on overcoming challenges that stem from disparate IT systems and result in information silos, and she has developed new methods that to tackle these challenges through integrated solutions for information quality and effective use. Shazia is passionate about the positive impact emerging technologies from data science, machine learning and artificial intelligence can have on our future. She advocates for the responsible and ethical technology developments and believe strongly that these developments require trans-disciplinary collaborations between research, industry, government and community.
